---
title: "Samson"
date: "Sat Sep 17 18:00:00 -0400 2016"
published: false
---

Today we said goodbye to my parents' dog, Samson. 

A few months ago Samson was diagnosed with [degenerative myelopathy][], an
autoimmune disease that causes nerve loss. It's progressed pretty rapidly --
in just a few months time he is no longer able to walk well or go to the
bathroom. It's heart breaking to see a dog that was so full of life, just a
year ago, change so quickly.

Samson is one of the best dogs I have known. 

---

Dear Sammy,

When my parents got you as a puppy, we all fell in love with you instantly. We
were amazed by how smart you were. We could hide toys anywhere and you always
found them in minutes. If someone had a bag with a treat, you would sniff it
out before they could walk through the door.

You had an insatiable curiosity for everything, and you still do.

Thank you for all the laughs. One of the best -- and most hilarious --
memories of my life was the day Chrys accidentally threw away some left over
pizza. She hadn't finished her slice and didn't see you when she dropped it in
the garbage can. You looked back and forth, from the garbage can to Chrys,
with such a questioning look in your eyes. I swear, if you could talk you'd
have yelled, "Dude, what the hell are you doing!? You know pizza is my
favorite!" You walked away in disgust, and ignored her for the rest of the
weekend. I'm pretty sure Chrys and I will still be laughing at that when we're
old and grey. 

Thank you for being strong for us when we needed you. You've been there for
every one of us, whether we needed a shoulder to cry on or a buddy to hang out
with playing video games. Even tonight as we said goodbye you acted like
nothing was wrong. I'm glad we got to see you one last time the way we'll
always remember you.

Saying goodbye to you tonight was one of the hardest things I've ever done. 

I'll miss you, buddy -- I promise to talk to Chrys about that pizza :heart: !

[degenerative myelopathy]: https://mygermanshepherd.org/german-shepherd-health/dog-degenerative-myelopathy/
