---
layout: default
title: jQuery, nothin' but love for ya
---

For the longest time, I was anti-javascript in just about every sense. Once I
figured out how to do rollovers with CSS instead of JS, I pretty much
abandoned all JS on my work. This was before Ajax was known for more than its
grease fighting abilities on pans and other dirty dishes. Needless to say, it
was only a matter of time before I had to use Javascript - and it was an
absolute disaster. Of course, now I know it was simply my inexperience with
Javascript (and more importantly, **cross-browser** Javascript)
that made it such a disaster. Now I know there are great tools already made to
do most of this stuff for you.

Enter Prototype &amp; Scriptaculous - A truly awesome set of JS libs. This is
one of the older libs around, so there is a great deal of documentation and
help available. I played around with it for a few months and made a few things
I thought were pretty cool (you probably wouldn't - I'm easily impressed by
myself). Unfortunately, the scripts are fairly large and the effects seem to
render somewhat slowly on FF in Linux. Could be me - could be
prototype/scriptaculous, but I'm not really interested in finding out. There
are other JS libs out there that so the same thing and are lighter weight.

Mootools.js - Another great set of JS libs. With mootools, you can actually
choose the components you need and download a custom made JS file that has
everything you'll need. It seems rather young, so there aren't as many options
as with prototype/scriptaculous (one I needed, containment within multiple
sortables), but it has a pretty large fanbase and will probably suit most
people's needs. I didn't get much time to play with mootools before I fell in
love with jQuery...

jQuery - My personal favorite thus far. Configuration is a snap, and there are
dozens (if not hundreds) of great plugins (table sorter, modal boxes,
sortables, etc) available. The plugins themselves are also beyond easy to
setup - which wasn't always the case with prototype. My favorite part - is the
speed at which everything loads. I tried a modal box on scriptaculous that
took literally 2 seconds to open and render properly. That might seem low, but
the same thing happens almost instantly with jQuery. That's enough to seal the
deal for me.

I might also be just **a little** biased. CodeIgniter is going to have native
libraries for jQuery, so you'll be able to interact with the JS layer from
your PHP layer. That'll be nice. You Rails kids can keep your prototype.
