---
layout: default
title: I love/hate KDE
---

I haven't been much of a KDE fan. 2 years ago when I was first exposed to
Linux in my Operating Systems class at ITT, I liked the layout a bit better
that Gnome, but really knew nothing about it.

I've been using Linux as my primary OS for just about a year now, with Ubuntu
6.06 being my weapon of choice. Several times I have installed KDE, only to
use it for 10 minutes. I found myself Googling the packages that were
installed (because I'm bad and I don't write important things like that down),
just so I could remove them.

KDE was okay, but I had grown to love Gnome - furthermore, I was comfortable
with it. I had it tweaked for performance on my midrange laptop. I knew where
stuff was. KDE was a strange monster I wanted nothing to do with, that was a
ram hog the few times I had installed it.

About a week ago, I did this again. After realizing it had been the 7th or 8th
time that I had removed KDE, I decided to install it **again** and actually
give it a chance. I was up until 4am that night configuring stuff.

There are some things I like better, such as the ease of configuration
(Windows control panel style vs Gnome's registry style). There is an ability
to force the size of certain windows and remember/force their location on the
desktop - I use this one to keep my softphone at work a certain size. The
screen saver allows you to put a gap between the start of the animation and
the time your password lock becomes active. This is especially nice for me - I
am constantly jumping for the mouse as the screen dims to try and stop the
screen saver.

A week later, I'm still using it. I have to admit, there were several times
when I wanted to race back to Gnome (and a few times I did). I have decided to
give it at least a month. I'm not quite sure which I'll end up going with.

Good times, indeed.
