---
title: UHHGGG
category: vault
---

I desperately need to put something up here. It's just a bunch of useless
shit, and back in my silverfire days, it was only half useless. Im sick of
this layout already. I want a cool cam site with a tacky blogger and about 3
minutes worth of design put into it. That's what I need. Ohh, and I can make
people buy me stuff. It'll be cool. COOL I SAY, COOL!

Today was kinda boring. My little cousin spent the night and then woke me up
at like 8:30 in the morning. That wouldn't be that bad if I hadn't been up
until 5AM talking with Ashley and then looking at gay cam sites. Haha, they're
really queer. Most of them are just guys with like bleached blonde hair with
their shirts off. Then some of them you have to pay for and you can get NUDES.
Well i don't need any man nudies thank you very much.

Not much else happened. I actually can't believe I'm still awake on 3 hours of
sleep. Its a miracle. I just got inspired to do like a Josh documentary.
Haha.. i don't know why... but I thought for some reason I should to a photo
documentary of a day in my life. So maybe tomorrow I'll do one. Hmm... lemme
see how many pics I can fit.. 100. Ive taken that many pictures in an hour.
I'm gonna have to go back and forth from my computer to wherever I'm at so I
don't run out of room. I'll probably be too tired to do it since I have to
wake up hella early to baby sit for some kids so my sister can go to
volleyball, which means school's only 2 weeks away... and it makes me want to
die. Blaah, school's laame.

I think I'm going to go fix my guestbook. Later kids...
