---
title: i woke up dead today, when angels fuck and devils scream
category: vault
---

I know that there haven't exactly been many updates. I also know that it is
almost March, and that I promised a site by Feb. You all knew it wouldn't
happen I think.

A few things are changing on here... First off, the chicks section a few of
you may remember from way back in my havoc days is not going to exist. It's
just too fucking hard to do and all I get from it is Mike Bryk telling me how
he masturbated to heidi91.jpeg and asking me if I've ever masturbated to
heidi91.jpeg. What I plan on doing with it, however, is just putting up small
profiles for a few people, with random pictures, and a link to Famous Babes or
something. There's no since in me downloading an assload of pictures when they
all are from a different site anyway.

Next, I am going to put a picture page up of all my digital pictures. This is
mainly for my friends because they've all been asking to see the pictures I'm
always taking of them. It will take me hours to upload them all, but I really
don't care.

The guestbook will be redesigned soon. Later today perhaps. It's 1AM now, but
I'm going to the neighbors house so I may be able to upload everything then.

I'm seriously considering a color change. I'm sick of the gold, but I still
like this layout. It may never happen, but who knows.

Also, there are still some CSS issues I think I have to work out still. It's
also been so long since I've seen a working version of my site, (i.e. with
visible SSI manipulations) I don't even remember what the navigation is.

Look for some more music shit too. From downloads to info. I might also get
rid of the pussy band of the month since it really is useless. But since it
would involve me redesigning my right content bar again, and it takes like an
hour every time I do, I may just leave it.

Since I've been playing a lot more video games lately than I usually do, I may
add a gaming section. I still am unsure about this though, since I need to
really get a hold of what I already have on here before I worry about adding
new shit.

Finally, since I should be getting broadband soon, I will be able to update
whenever I want. Oh yeah... you all probably don't know about the stupid
fucking time restriction that my father, in his infinite wisdom, placed on my
AOL account. It will be gone once I get cable. If it isn't I'll find a way
around it.
