---
title: "2022 Universal Orlando Trip"
date: "Mon Feb 14 22:12:32 -0500 2022"
category: blog
---

Just got back from an awesome mini-vacation at Universal Orlando with my
fiancÃ©e and 4 of our friends.

We left Friday morning and spent the night in Universal's City Walk hanging
out, eating, and drinking. I love starting out a vacation with low key stuff
like this, since it is often the most relaxing part of a trip.

Saturday morning we started early at Islands of Adventure with the
VelociCoaster. Which was way too intense for my liking. I tried Dramamine for
the first time for this trip --- it helped a ton and I'll definitely use it
again for roller coasters.


The rest of the day was a bit of a blur. One highlight for me, was the
Forbidden Journey ride in the Harry Potter section. I skipped it on my first
trip thinking it would be too intense after Transformers or Spider-Man shook
me around a bit too much. Forbidden Journey was basically a fancy Soarin'
(from Disney World, a ride which I love). We ended up going on it again
Sunday. 

After a Krusty Burger none of us should have eaten --- since we had already
had a huge meal --- we tried out Doctor Doom's Fearfall. I liked this one a
lot better than I expected. I had skipped Tower of Terror on our last trip to
Disney, but I think I'll try it next time we get down there...

The Dr. Seuss rides and area are lame and should be replaced. There. I said
it.

The Jurassic Park River Ride is always a great time. Luckily this time the
water hit me directly in the face, which actually felt fantastic in the heat.

We then spent way too much time in Hogsmeade. If you are a HP fan, or bringing
one to Universal for the first time, _please_ start out in Diagon Alley! I'm
not a particularly huge fan of Harry Potter myself, but the consensus from
everyone I know is that Diagon Alley is a much better experience. Personally,
I think Diagon Alley feels more isolated and part of the "world" than
Hogsmeade.

Sunday we started out at Universal Studios with Hagrid's Magical Creatures
Motorbike Adventure. Walking through the castle in line for this ride was
pretty cool. I always find myself wondering how the ride designers make
the scenery and props (like bird cages, old cabinets, etc). Does someone look
for old things at flea markets, or do they take new items and scuff them up to
look old? I digress. The ride was fun but slightly too intense for me.

I skipped out on Spider-Man and Transformers (which are basically the same
ride). The quick jerking motions and directional changes really mess up my
stomach. I don't mind skipping a ride here and there. That's always a good
time for a snack or a beer ðŸ˜„

The Simpsons Ride was much more fun for me this time. For some reason, when I
went on it a few years ago, it felt a little too intense and left my feeling
slightly queasy. I had none of that this time around. I wonder now if I had
gone on another ride prior on my last trip...

Unfortunately I left my keychain/lanyard and sunglasses in the car and didn't
notice for another hour or so. I had an AirTag on it and was able to track it
back to The Simpsons Ride. It took forever while attendants radioed each
other, but I was able to get the keys back.

We rounded out the night with one last trip to Diagon Alley for one of our
friends who was a huge HP nerd and hadn't gotten her fill just yet. We knew
that she really wanted to go back and snap a few more pictures and do some
shopping, but the others in the group weren't really feeling it. I'm glad we
pushed her to go. She had a lot of fun in that last hour and got some
souvenirs and pictures. We also had a delicious Hot Butter Beer with Fire
Whiskey. They don't like you to do that, so don't pour the whiskey in the
Butter Beer while they are looking like Chrys ðŸ˜‚

We rounded out the night with some awesome Italian food and drinks, then had a
couple more drinks at the hotel and we all slept for a few hours. Monday was
the typical frantic experience trying to get checked out and boarded. On the
plus side, we found a "TSA Clear" program that let us pick a reservation time
and we skipped 90% of the security line. I don't think we'd have boarded
without it...

All in all, an amazing trip with some of my best friends! I've _really_ missed
vacationing since COVID started (which ironically was immediately _after_
arriving home from my last vacation in Jan 2020). Here's hoping we avoided the
plague while down there! ðŸ¤ž
