---
title: "The seventy thousand"
date: "Sat Aug 27 20:10:02 -0400 2022"
---

The Biden administration announced their student debt relief program this
week. Of course there are a lot of opinions on this, ranging from literal
tears of relief to outright rage over liberals getting another handout. I'm
one of those people who penny pinched for years to pay my loans off and I
think this is a great idea. Strap in for a story.

---

It's 2005 and you're pretty good at making websites. You know people pay for
this skill, but you can't seem to get your foot in the door anywhere. Right
now, you work at a gas station making $6.75 an hour. Your parents think a 20
year old needs to enroll in school or to get a job pay rent. There's no
discussion at all about any of it. It's their way or the highway---literally.

You see, _they've_ been told your entire life that college is the key to the
success they've never been able to achieve. You've heard it from the time you
were old enough to walk, from every teacher, mentor, family member, and sitcom
you ever watched. Unlike those kids on TV though, you have no "college fund"
and you have to pay for this yourself.

Sick of working a shitty job for $175 a week and forking over $50 of it for
rent, you decide to enroll in school. There's a local ITT campus about 40
minutes away that is offering Web Development degrees. That seems to be a
closer fit to the work you hope to do one day than computer science. It's also
only 2 years instead of 4.

You randomly drive down to check it out after getting in another fight with
your mom about that $50. Before you know it, you are asking questions like
"what is my monthly payment going to be?" and not getting an answer. You're
only 20, and you're too dumb to know that you should never sign a loan without
knowing the monthly payment amount, and that they totally could have
calculated it for you. You enroll anyway and wait a few days to tell your mom
to fuck off on rent day. You're in college now, baby! It surprises you that it
causes an argument and she still expects the $50 that week.

Months pass. You realize that this school is pretty lame and you already know
more than they are teaching. Like, a lot more. The stuff that is interesting,
like Photoshop, is for the version from two years ago. You think about
dropping out, but then your parents would just call you a drop out. So you
keep your head down and pass the classes.

Randomly, financial aid people hunt you down to sign another set of paperwork.
You don't realize quite how much everything is costing, just that your other
friends get access to the money to spend on things that aren't directly
through the school. Some of them managed to get cars and you're driving a 25
year old shit box that leaks gas every time you turn left. These finance
people mention you should try to pay some of the interest, if you can, to save
money later. No one tells you how compound interest works or how much interest
you've accrued so far.

You eventually get a tech support job in your field. You consider again
whether you should continue with a degree that isn't really teaching you much.
If you got out now, you'd "only" owe about $20,000. But, you'd have to start
paying immediately. Besides, having the degree will be worth it, you assure
yourself. Everyone says college is the key to success, right? That looming
payment is starting to scare you, but it's still a year or so away.

You finally graduate and move into a web development role. Life is good for
about 6 months! You're living on your own and getting by. Until you wake up
one day and get that first bill for $610 a month and it all comes crashing
down.

You're making about $39,000 a year, and seeing just about $1,000 in your
paycheck every two weeks. In a panic you call the loan company and tell them
you can't pay what they want. They explain that they have options based on
your income, and once you can verify your salary, they can bring it down to
about $415 a month. You're still panicking. That's still a lot of money, but
you aren't going to argue with a $195 savings every month.

You make it work somehow for about year. You don't realize that every month
the balance on that loan is actually going up. By a lot. It's probably a small
blessing you don't know yet.

One day you find out you're done with your "easy" payment and now you have to
pay $630 a month, no ifs, ands, or buts. Oh, and since you've not actually
made any progress on the loan yet, you still have a full 120 payments to make.
The year and half of payments you've made so far did fuck all for your actual
loan balance.

You're really struggling now. You know you can't maintain even the modest
lifestyle you're used to, but you try anyway. Soon all of your bills are being
paid late every month. They don't seem _too_ mad, so you've convinced yourself
there are no consequences to this.

All of your credit cards are close to maxed, but you're just above water. One
day you foolishly spend $25 at the gas station on a card with a $945 balance.
That puts you over $950. You don't realize that "950" is the magic number your
bank has arbitrarily decided is the max you get to spend on your $1,000 max
credit card. They charge a $35 fee which puts you over your $1,000 limit. They
charge you another $35 for that.

You'd probably be crying but you're a man and men don't cry. They deal with
their own problems. You do the math and realize on the disposable income you
have, it'll take you 2 years to pay that card off. You try your best, but when
the month is done, that card is still over its limit. The bank calls you 45
times in a single day before you can send them just enough to stop bothering
you. You really want to take that cry, but you suck it the fuck up like a man.

You know you need to move back home to get out of the hole you're in. It takes
you about six months to finally admit to yourself. You feel like a shitty
friend to your roommate. You feel like you've failed at 24 years old. And
since you're a dumb 24 year old, you also feel like it's forever.

Moving home feels like a relief, for a bit. In spite of having a little extra
money it's still hard to put a dent in any of the debt. And every month,
Sallie Mae is there to say "fuck you pay me". You spend two years just barely
scraping by. You don't know it yet, but your credit score is pretty fucked
because you have 7 months of 30 day late payments reported. Luckily you _know_
you can't afford a car loan yet, so your bad credit never actually bites you
in the ass.

After a couple years, you land a new job making $60,000. Making 50% more money
overnight feels absolutely life changing. Just 3 short months after starting
you are finally caught up and can BREATHE! A few months after that and you
have $1,000 in the bank for the first time _ever_.

You live a few years relatively stress free as far as finances are concerned.
Still, it takes you another 3 years to fix your credit score, and another 4
after that for all the derogatory marks you had to clear. You're thankful you
didn't really need to buy a house or car during this time.

You hear through the grape vine that the company you started at years ago
wanted to pass on you because of the name ITT. Frustrated and sad, you quietly
remove a black mark you never knew you had from your resume and LinkedIn.
You're still making those $630/month payments.

A few years later and you smile one day when you realize your net worth is a
positive number for the first time in your life. You realize you're even in a
spot where you can finally pay down the last $3,500. You do it in one payment
as one final small fuck you, as if the $30 they'd miss in interest somehow
makes it all worth it.

In spite of finally have no large debts and a 6 month emergency fund, you
still can't shake the idea that you're one surprise letter or phone call away
from having it all taken away from you. Every time a car makes a noise or has
a bad smell, you start to panic. Not that it's ever _your_ car... That sad 24
year old---with his leaky Civic and over-drafted credit card---is still inside
of you a decade later just waiting to pop out and say "I fucking _told_ you
so, man!"

Fast forward another 4 years and you're hearing rumors of student debt
forgiveness. The idea kind of bugs you. You had to pay for your loans and it
was fucking hard! Why are people pursuing basket weaving degrees anyway? Why
is that your problem?

Ah well, you're not really convinced the politicians will do anything---wait,
did they just refund $3.2 billion with a b for _recent_ ITT graduates?! You
not only get no refund, but now that degree is _really_ not something to
advertise.

You wake up on a random weekday and read that Biden's actually gonna do it.
Your fianc√©e is almost in tears of relief now that her $25,000 has almost
disappeared overnight. You read countless stories online of other people in
similar or worse situations. You can feel the weight lifted from their
shoulders.

You spend way too long writing a blog post about it. It's kind of painful
reliving those moments when you opened that first tuition bill and realized it
was more than 30% of your take home pay; what a failure you felt like when a
$25 gas station trip went sideways; how truly odd it was to wake up one day
and feel financially stable for the first time in your life.

You realize it's been 17 years and you still feel somehow broken from the
entire ordeal. You're not sure it'll ever go away. You know half the people
who read this will think you're a privileged baby. But you publish it anyway,
and you hope that maybe all those people you read about can feel normal
themselves someday.
