---
title: "My recipe site"
date: "Tue Feb 08 20:14:38 -0500 2022"
category: dev
---

In October 2020 I set about getting my assortment of recipes online in
Markdown format. tl;dr checkout [recipes.priddle.xyz][1], [this sauce][2], and
[that sauce][3].

When I was a little boy, nothing was better on those cold upstate NY mornings
than a piping hot bowl of Jekyll...

Anyway, I had been printing recipes on 6x4 inch index cards and keeping them
in a nice wooden box on my kitchen counter. I had a really complicated
Pages.app template for printing them on Avery card stock that had 2 cards per
page. Each Pages document had 2 recipes in it. As I'd collect more recipes,
I'd dutifully add or update a new document.

This worked to fill that little wooden box, but it sucked whenever I'd need to
reprint a card (either to share with someone or because I dripped food/water
on it). We also often had to send pictures or copy the text from a card into
our phones to share recipes with people.

While I really liked the cards, I knew this thing needed a website, and
[recipes.priddle.xyz][1] was born.

First, I came up with a simple format to contain all of my recipes in
Markdown:

```md
# Title

## Ingredients

Symbols
¼ ½ ¾ ⅓ ⅔ ⅕ ⅖ ⅗ ⅘ ⅙ ⅚ ⅛ ⅜ ⅝ ⅞ →
°

## Directions

How to cook it goes here.
```

I keep a copy of this right in `recipes/TEMPLATE.md` to copy from whenever I
add a new recipe. It is handy to have the symbols right there for
measurements and degrees.

A custom Jekyll build script iterates through all of the recipe Markdown files
in `recipes/*` and generates 2 new files (the HTML file itself that one would
[view][3] on the web is generated by Jekyll itself).

**.txt**: I just copy the raw markdown file to a [text file][5]. I honestly
wanted to use `.md` so I could link to `/recipes/blah.md`, but GitHub Pages
didn't like that.

**.pdf**: I use [Prawn][6] to generate a [pdf card][4] for each recipe. One
column is the `## Ingredients` section from the recipe, the other is the `##
Directions` section. I can also toss a `---` in the Directions section if a
recipe runs long, and the PDF will have a 2nd page added.

The best part of this is that I can quickly pull up any recipe on my phone if
I need to --- and we ended up sending a few people recipes over the holidays.
I've actually been using the recipe cards a bit less now that I can just pull
up things on my phone quickly. I do still like the cards for complicated
recipes.

Another unexpected surprise this is that I was able to get the PDFs to print
from my printer right on single 6x4 cards without too much trouble. Now, I
just throw a recipe in a new `.md` file, push to GitHub, and download a PDF.

I hope that if you've stumbled across this post, you'll give it a try
yourself! Just clone [the repo][2] and add your own recipe cards. You'll just
need to setup a token for GitHub Actions as outlined at
[fabacab/jekyll-builder-for-github-pages-action][7] but you should be up and
running within an hour or so.

[1]: https://recipes.priddle.xyz
[2]: https://github.com/itspriddle/recipes.priddle.xyz
[3]: https://recipes.priddle.xyz/recipes/Vincenzos%20Marinara%20Sauce.html
[4]: https://recipes.priddle.xyz/recipes/Vincenzos%20Marinara%20Sauce.pdf
[5]: https://recipes.priddle.xyz/recipes/Vincenzos%20Marinara%20Sauce.txt
[6]: https://github.com/prawnpdf/prawn
[7]: https://github.com/fabacab/jekyll-builder-for-github-pages-action
