---
title: What's up kiddies?
category: vault
---

What's up kiddies? I'm back, and better than ever. Well, at least I think so.
I really don't care what you think. Anyway, this is my test version, I don't
even know if you are ever going to see this message, but oh well. I have to
type something here... If I think your especially nice, or you stumbled across
this on accident, here is what the plan is. On the chick section, we've got as
always Heidi Klum... with a grand total of 0 images! I need to get better
quality ones, I realized they sucked after I uploaded them and actually took a
look. Laetitia Casta... with a total of 0 images! I have around 200 sitting on
my computer that need to be reduced slightly in size, edited, etc. I don't
know who else is gonna find her way to my chicks section. Just those two for
now, I don't want to dig myself into a hole that I will never be able to climb
out from. Music... I'm going to do a ton of album reviews, and post other
peoples reviews. I'm going to try and post some music news if I ever get
enough creative energy to layout my blog to match my page. Gonna post some
more RA files, requests are welcome. As long as its "rock". By that I mean not
NSYNC or the Beatles, or old crap. Real stuff you could smash something to.
Actually, I don't care, just send a request anyway. Maybe some metal
lyrics/tabs... maybe. I'm gonna actually make my posse section this time! I've
got a digital camera now so I can get pictures of people. Cool, huh? And
uselessness will of course be useless; stuff about me, site explanations.
Useless stuff, hence the name. There's gonna be a lot more stuff I really
can't remember now, but when I come up with something good it will be here.
