---
title: Updates
---

If you remember a few weeks back, I had blogged about a program I am writing
called Movierack. Well --- it's more or less complete now (although you can't
have the link unless you work with me, tough luck kids). I hate the layout,
and there are still bugs, but all in all, it's way better than an Apache
directory listing.

If you remembered that, you'd also remember that it was meant to be my
TechFest project at ITT. Well, that didn't happen. At 7:20am, the day it was
due, after having stayed up through the night working on shit, I took it upon
myself to write the following query: `DELETE FROM movies WHERE movie_id < =
410;`

That should have been: `DELETE FROM movies WHERE movie_id >= 410;`

So... that got fixed, but not until it was way too late. Your lesson from that
story is: Always `SELECT` before you `DELETE`, and `mysqldump` is your friend.

I have also nearly completed my projects for IT216 (Perl/CGI) and IT313
(Javascript). Perl - lets just say that I'm glad I have a working knowledge of
the language, but I'm certainly not about to switch from PHP. As for
JavaScript - I have always hated it. Only recently, with the advent of AJAX,
have I begun to realize its power. The class itself - was tailored for 1997
style JS, that barely rendered in IE if you were lucky. Another $1500 waste
of money class.

I'll be working on a small logo for [Mr Price](http://dacrib.net). And Eric
and I have decided to hit Asterisk head on in the coming weeks. Something XXX
Classified is in the works. I've already said too much, if you're reading, I'm
afraid I have to kill you.

More updates to come kids.
