---
title: Disagreement is a Healthy Part of Collaboration
#category: thoughts
---

A **strong** collaborative culture is one of my favorite parts of coming to
work every day. One thing that isn't touched on often is that disagreement can
actually be an indicator of a _healthy_ team.

In a collaborative environment you're going to face disagreement or conflict.
The most important thing to remember while working through it is to assume the
best intentions from everyone involved. The person proposing an idea almost
certainly isn't trying to cause harm to the company, customers, or 
systems. And a person disagreeing with that idea probably isn't trying to
attack you or your abilities. We're all just trying to make the best decision
possible with the information we have at that moment.

For developers and engineers, when disagreements happen, they usually come
during code reviews or in technical discussions. Often we might be very proud
of the code or idea we're presenting for review, certain that it is the right
solution. While hearing push back can be frustrating, it is important to leave
egos aside and realize that the reviewer also just wants the best solution for
the problem at hand. If you are frustrated, that is okay, you're human! Feel
free to step away for a bit and come back later. When you are ready, start by
asking clarifying questions to understand _why_ there is disagreement. The
reviewer might have additional context that you lack yourself -- or they might
lack the context that _you_ have. The only way to resolve the disagreement and
gain consensus is to hash things out respectfully.

Disagreement doesn't only happen among the technical teams -- folks in
support, sales, and billing work collaboratively as well. The same advice
above works any time you have a disagreement at work or in life. Take a few
moments to yourself if you find emotions are running high. Then try to
understand why there is disagreement. Present the facts, calmly, as you
understand them. Give serious consideration to the other side's viewpoint and
be willing to change your own. Once all the facts are known everyone can work
together to come to the best resolution.

Finally, disagreement with _management_ can also be an indicator of a healthy
team. As a manager, you are probably fairly knowledgeable in the work your
team is doing. You might even be able to do some of it yourself. But, you may
not have the same level of expertise on a topic as someone on your team. As a
leader, is it even more important that you remain calm and be willing to
change your viewpoint. Otherwise, people on your team will be afraid to
challenge one of your ideas they _know_ is wrong.

Always remember when you're dealing with disagreement: assume the best
intentions from everyone involved, stay calm and take a breather if you need
to, and be willing to change your viewpoint when presented with new facts.

---

I wrote this blog post for A2 Hosting's internal blog. Sharing it here as
well.
