---
date: "Mon Apr 22 15:30:00 -0400 2013"
title: "A Year Without Smoking"
redirect_from: /blog/2013/a-year-without-smoking.html
---

Just over a year ago, I [left for Railsconf][Railsconf] and
made one of the best decisions of my life: I was going to use the week in
Austin to force myself to quit smoking.

At the time, I had been smoking cigarettes for about 9 years. I had never
actually tried to quit smoking, although, I always told myself I would
eventually. I thought that being in a non-smoking environment for a week would
be the perfect time to try.

I knew going in that it would be a challenge, and that I would need some help.
I immediately ruled out Chantix --- I had some friends try it who turned into
crazy assholes on it. I briefly considered using an electronic cigarette, like
Bluecig, but decided against it. I didn't want to replace one form of smoking
with another. I ended up choosing the nicotine patch for the entire 10 weeks
they recommend.

The patch was an interesting experience. In the beginning, I felt like I
_needed_ to apply a fresh patch each morning. For the first few days, applying
the new patch definitely had a sensation like smoking a cigarette did. I came
to enjoy the tingly sensation it gave my arm after I applied it. Every few
weeks you switch to a smaller patch, so by the end of the 10 weeks, I barely
noticed it's effects.

Most people say that the first week without smoking is the hardest. For me, my
first week was easy because I was constantly in a non-smoking environment at
Railsconf. My second week without smoking, my first week back to work after
Railsconf, was definitely the most difficult for me. The moment I got back
from Austin, I wanted to drive straight to the store to buy a pack. I managed
to avoid doing that when I realized what an accomplishment it was to have gone
7 full days without smoking --- something I hadn't done in years.

That second week was really, _really_ hard. I found myself being easily
frustrated by problems with code I was working on. I almost convinced myself
that my performance was slipping to the point where I _needed_ to start
smoking again. Thankfully, that wasn't really the case, and I talked myself
out of it. I also found myself getting a little impatient with people, but I
was able to acknowledge and control this. I never allowed myself to pissed off
at anyone and use the excuse of "well I'm trying to quit smoking!"

During these first few weeks, anything and everything reminded me of the "joy"
of smoking. TV shows with characters that smoked seemed to cause particularly
strong cravings, surprisingly, stronger than those caused by being in the
company of other smokers lighting up. I had unknowingly trained myself to
expect a cigarette after meals, after completing tasks, to help with
frustration, during a ride in the car, right when I woke up. At first it was
difficult to relearn how to do these things without a cigarette, but as each
week passed, it became easier.

About 5 weeks in, I started to notice a change: I was going hours at a time
without even thinking about cigarettes. I still had cravings, but they
happening less frequently. I finally got those improved senses of taste and
smell everyone always mentions when they quit smoking. Saving $10.25 per pack,
per day, my wallet definitely noticed a change, too!

When the 10th week approached, the last week I was to use the patch, I
remember wondering how I could ever survive without them. At first, I felt I
really need the patch again, but that went away after about a week.

After this milestone, it was more or less smooth sailing. I still get cravings
here and there, but they are easy to say "no" to and go away very fast. I've
had a few dreams where I buy a pack and smoke again, and I end up feeling
guilty in the dream and wake myself up.

After a few more months, winter hit, and I laughed as I saw people freezing
outside in the snow to smoke. When spring hit, I laughed again as I saw people
freezing outside in the rain to smoke. I don't miss that at all!

Each month became another milestone, until almost a year had passed. At that
point, I knew I was done for good. Today, I'm happy to say, marks one year
since my last cigarette!

[Railsconf]: {% post_url 2012/2012-04-22-railsconf-ho %}
